a startling number of accidents happen
to passengers outside a vehicle while
they're boarding or leaving here are
some tips to pass on to riders to keep
them out of the way of passing traffic
walk on the left shoulder of the road if
there is no sidewalk look carefully
before crossing a street be aware of
vehicles around you stay in a
single-file line
never stand or play in the loading zone
don't crowd or push go directly to your
seat fill the van from front to back
leaving any open seats in the rear rows
be careful not to overload luggage racks
when exiting immediately move away from
the vehicle your passengers have to know
that there is responsible for a safe
trip as the driver is so don't be shy
about giving them a little speech before
the trip
that speech should go something like
this well hello everybody have a great
time today are we it'll be an even
better time if you just do three things
for me first make sure you have a seat
belt and strap yourself in and please
stand your seat while we're on the road
and then second keep your head and hands
inside the vehicle
don't put them outside the window and
please don't open a window without
asking first and then third please no
shouting or yelling sure you can talk
you can joke but the driver does have
things to listen for and needs to be
able to hear those things so thanks a
lot see that wasn't so bad now let's get
on the road you're higher than most
vehicles out here and have a better view
ahead than they do but that's probably
your only advantage the fact is you're
less maneuverable than most it takes you
longer to accelerate and to stop and you
can't react as quickly to unexpected
conditions that means you must allow for
more following distance between you and
other traffic than you would in a car of
all the space around you the space
you're driving into is most important
one good rule says that under ideal
driving conditions you need at least one
second for each 10 feet
chuckling that speeds below 40 miles per
hour so if you're driving a 20 foot
vehicle you need two seconds at greater
speeds you must add one second for
safety let's say you're driving a 20
foot van at 50 miles per hour on a
bright sunny day you need three seconds
of following distance to know how much
space there is between you and the
vehicle ahead wait until it passes a
pavement marking or other clear landmark
then count off the seconds until you
reach the spot 1,001 1,002 1,003 your
vehicle is also more top-heavy than a
car so you must take turns at a slower
rate than the posted speed limit you
also have larger blind spots even with
all your mirrors properly adjusted to
blind spots you must be constantly aware
of or at the sides of your van cars on
either side of you can't be seen unless
you lean forward to look into your
sideview mirrors you must also look to
the side turn your head to make sure
traffic is clear when you change lanes
stay alert some things that can affect
your reaction time are illness or
fatigue highway hypnosis anger or
preoccupied thoughts and the effects of
alcohol or medication if you're on a
longer trip don't push it take regular
rest stops have two qualified drivers on
board